To begin a threat modeling exercise,
gather the stakeholders in the same room.
You would need a security expert and the product owner.
And depending on how comprehensive you want the exercise to be,
you might need the software architect, business analyst,
and the delivery manager too.
Throw in Bob from the risk management team as well.
These people will bring different perspectives and ideas to the table,
and also build a shared understanding of what's important.
Next up, bring in the diagrams.
Lots of it. Well, it depends again on how
comprehensive you want things to be.
You'll need the technical diagrams of the different components of your application.
Don't forget the data flow diagrams.
This will help assess where attackers can inject threats.
Mull over those diagrams for a bit.
Once everyone is familiar with the diagrams, it's time to brainstorm for threats.
Take your favorite methodology
then follow the data flow lines to come up with threats.
Identify all the threats that you can see,
both broad and technical.
Write them on stickies and post it on a board where your diagrams are.
This is the fun part but will also take awhile.
Once all the threats are in, you need to define the
impact and probability for each.
What's the impact of that threat to your customers? To the business?
What are the riskiest threats that you should prioritize?
Rank risks based on your risk approach.
For each prioritized threat,
define security controls to mitigate the risk.
These controls are actionable items that your team can perform and validate.
The output of a threat modeling exercise is the list of threats and their controls.
Don't throw those stickies yet.
Log them in a place where your developers can refer back to
and for the stakeholders to check the status of.
Excel? JIRA? Whatever works for your team.
This exercise should give you a great start in building a secure product.